Post 4:  King of the Underworld


    It was done.  The Shadow Matoran's bomb lay before me, defused.  I slumped back in the crushed cabin and let out a sigh of exhaustion.  The Shadow Matoran sniffled behind me, getting to its feet.
    --Oh, Spirit protect me, I thought, --I can't take another fight.--
    Suddenly a booming voice echoed in the mine.
    "Freeze, punk!"
    "I answer only to Makuta, fool!"
    WHAM!
    Just as suddenly, the Shadow Matoran flew through the lift door, out cold.  Onepu strode in, pistol in his left hand, both wearing spiked gauntlets.
    "Well, that was... timely,"  I said.
    "Now you see why I don't wear that ring.  But, Huki?"
    "Uh-huh?"
    "I thought I told you to take care of that ring.  Jumping down a mine shaft and getting into a swordfight was not what I had in mind."
    "Yessir."
    Onepu groaned, dragged the Matoran out of the lift and strapped it to the back of a waiting Ussal crab.  He signaled me to follow him up the long, winding tunnels to Onu-Koro.

***

    As I found out, Onepu was particularly fond of his gauntlets.  With a front-row seat to an interrogation (through a hole in the ceiling), I watched Onepu pound a table, trying to scare the Shadow Matoran.
    "You're lying!" he bellowed.  "Do you want to know how I know?"
    "Enlighten me," the Shadow Matoran said, tone dripping with insolence.
    "You're twitching like the coward dipstick you ought to be!"
    The Matoran glanced over... his? Her? Its shoulder.  "That's a fly, you imbecile."
    "There he goes again!" Onepu exclaimed, motioning vaguely to the ceiling where I sat.
    "Actually, it would be she," the Matoran shot back.
    "I don't flipping care!"
    So the... discussion went for about ten minutes.  No useful information gained except the Shadow Matoran was apparently female and Onepu had no use for said fact.  Finally Onepu got tired of it.  He unsheathed a knife and pointed it at the Matoran.
    "Tell me where you come from!" he roared.  "Why are Matoran dissapearing?  What is this Shadow Plague?"
    "I'm not intimidated by you," said the Matoran.
    "As well you shouldn't!"
    She laughed.  "Shut up!" Onepu yelled.
    Meanwhile the door opened to the observation room and Jala walked in.  "What's going on?" he asked me.  "What did I miss?"
    I pointed down below to the angry scene.  "We found her trying to blow up the Great Mine and release some sort of chemical.  I helped the Ussalry stop her and defuse the bomb.  She's a Shadow Matoran, and Onepu's trying to get information out of her."
    "To no avail, I see," remarked the Captain of the Guard.
    "Do you know her?" I asked him.
    Jala said nothing but stared down into the interrogation room.  Onepu glanced above before looking back to the Shadow Matoran, who had stopped chuckling.  Her words chilled my blood.
    "Sad, sad fool," she mocked,  "Do you really think you can stop the coming darkness?  Do you really think Makuta has anything to fear about you?  He will have this island.  He will have you, just like he has me, has the Rahi, has the sea, sky, the very ground itself under his command.  And you dare test his might?  You dare rebel against his rule?"
    "I am the King of The Underworld!" Onepu shouted.  "I rule here, not Makuta!"
    "Tsk, tsk.  You know nothing is perfect, dear 'King'.  This world is hard and unforgiving.  Yet you pray to a 'Great Spirit' that he would wake up from his eternal slumber and turn this island into a paradise.  Fool indeed.  He could not hear you even if he existed.  Would it not be better to beg mercy of the great Makuta, who, as your myths go, bested his brother and cast him into peaceful sleep unending?"
    "I pray that whenever Mata Nui wakes up, he sends a bolt of lightning at you."
    She laughed softly again.  "Even now I hear the winds of time, whispering across the plains, the jungles, the very tunnels of Onu-Wahi.  The demons of the dark come to gather the faithful, the chosen of Makuta, and bring him to him to become the first of his new, perfect Matoran.  The demons of the dark come now to usher in a new age, a paradise of shadow, a world of anger, ignorance, greed, and hate.  A world where the mind does not have to be troubled, but sleeps as Mata Nui, and the true nature, the true power of the Matoran breaks free.  Why, pray tell, do you not join him?"
    "Oh, you good for nothing waste of protodermis, tell Makuta I am never giving in to his lies!"
    "Very well, oh 'King'.  Makuta can always wait, whisk you off into the darkness with your 'friends', to the depths even you cannot claim you rule, and lull your soul to slumber."
    "SHUT!  YOUR!  HOLE!"
    "By all means, 'King', give in to your rage.  See how much it changes your doom."
    Onepu grabbed the knife, grabbed the Matoran's throat, had her in a choke hold.  She didn't respond, just smile sickeningly and go limp, like a doll.
    "Quick, Huki, give me my ring," Jala whispered.  I handed it to him, and he dropped it down onto the battered table in the room.
    Clattering on the table, the ruby caught Onepu's eye.  He paused for a moment.  Fingered his knife thoughtfully.
    --No, no, no, Onepu, don't listen to her!--
    "Come now, 'King of The Underworld', kill me.  I dare you."
    An eternity seemed to pass while I screamed the same prayer, that same line of thought over and over in my head, and I could almost hear Jala doing the same.
    "No... oh no.  Not yet.  I would just do THIS!"
    His voice hit a crescendo as his arm jerked.  I shut my eyes for a brief second.  But when I opened them again, I was greeted with a curious sight.
    The knife lay useless on the table.  The Shadow Matoran had her eyes open and her heartlight flashed, but in Onepu's gauntlet was her mask.
    She started screaming.
    At first it was a bellow of pain, much like a Rahi would give, as if Onepu had harmed her.  The her eyes and her voice widened with shock.  But I never expected her voice to hit an earsplitting pitch, a note containing so much fear and terror, you would have sworn she saw Makuta himself walk through the interrogation room.
    In a way, I suppose she had.
    But oh, Great Spirit, keep me from ever hearing that sound again.

***

    "Huki!  You all right?"
    I ran out of the interrogation room and paused by the underground stream.  The Shadow Matoran... over and over again, she didn't care whether she lived or died, just had a job to do, a bomb to set off, a plan to follow.  Orders to carry out to the letter.
    --It didn't matter if she lived or died.  She was screaming.  She didn't notice Onepu about to kill her.  If Jala wasn't there, he probably would have... how could she be fine with that?--
    They don't call it the Madness for nothing.
    I dipped my foot into the water, then instinctively recoiled.  The boat.  I had woken up on a boat knowing hardly anything.  Just a mysterious illness that had altered my mind in some way.
    Oh, how I prayed it wasn't the Madness.
    Dashka was beside me.  "Huki, I have water.  You no O-K.  Here, you gave me water, let me return favor."
    I reluctantly took the bottle from him, took a swig.  "Thanks, Dashka."
    "Anytime, Huki!  What happened?"
    "Ackpth.  You don't want to know."
    "You should go home to Po-Koro, Huki.  Do you all sort of good."
    --Sage advice, Dashka, sage advice.--

