Post 6, part 1:  Hot Sauce

    
    Whatever Kaj was going to say was cut off by a blisteringly loud siren that suddenly wailed throughout the tunnels.  Kaj's eyes shot open wide as he looked towards the pipes on the ceiling.  He pointed his staff down the tunnel to the mines and shouted.
    "Guys!  It's gonna blow!  Get out of there NOW!"
    Suddenly I was caught up in a flow of bodies, arms, legs, and masks everywhere, as Matoran flooded out of the mine.  When I caught my breath, dazed, Kaj was quickly locking the door to the mine.
    "Come on!  MOVE!"
    "What's going on?"
    "It's gonna blow!  There's too much lava for the pump to handle!  Now go!"
    He threw me across the tunnel, landing me in a soft pile of ashes.  Even though we were technically safe, we both dove out of the cavern as spigots opened on the overhead pipes, spilling hot yellow magma into the moat of the cave.

***

    "Kaj!"  I yelled.  "What happened?"
    "I don't know!"  he shouted over the lava flow.  "The pipes were over-pressureized!  They were fine a minute ago!"
    "Hey, Kaj!" another Onu-Matoran said.  "The pipes are clogged!"
    "How can you tell?"
    He held up a communications pad.  "Gizmo the engineers gave us.  Uses sound waves to detect obstructions in the pipe.  Apparently... it's three-point-two miles vertical."
    "Up the mountain?  The top of the mountain?"
    "The machine doesn't lie."
    Kaj sunk his face in his hands.  "I hate Ko-Wahi."
    "Don't we all."
    "What are you talking about?"  I asked.
    "The Northern March," Kaj replied.  "It's a faction of the Ta-Koro Guard that keeps watch over Ko-Wahi.  The Ta-Koroans naturally need heat in their Ko-Wahi bases, so they contract us to pump hot lava to the top of Mt. Ihu, where their major base is."
    "It's pretty flipping cold up there," the other Matoran piped in.
    "All of this makes repairing a clogged lava pipe a pain.  We're going to have to send someone up to Ko-Wahi to repair the pipe and get the lava flowing again," Kaj finished.
    "What happens if it doesn't get fixed?" I asked.
    "Over six dozen Guards either go home or become popsicles," quoth the miner.
    "So it's pretty important."
    "You could say that.  The fastest way to get to Ko-Wahi is to go to Ta-Koro and use the cablecar they have, but you'll have to get authorization from Jala to use the car.  I heard they were fighting pretty hard in Ko-Wahi, too, so good luck getting a pass."
    "Wait, I know a better way," the other Matoran said.
    "When, pray tell, were you going to tell us?" Kaj snapped.
    "Alright, just hold on.  There's some abandoned tunnels at the top of the mountain.  They can't be too far from the lava pipe, or the Guard base.  If we can get up there--"
    "--we can take some engineers and have the pipe fixed in no time.  But if it was abandoned due to Rahi--"
    "--we might need Onepu to give us a few Ussalry escorts."
    "I can take care of any Rahi we find," I said.
    "We?" Kaj remarked.
    "I'm supposed to go up there, right?  Aren't you coming with me?"
    "Number one, I can't go with you, I have to make sure the pump doesn't blow up when the pipe gets fixed..."
    "...not really, they're perfectly safe," the other Matoran noted.
    "...and number two, given your recent ordeal, you are in no condition to go beating up Rahi in mysterious tunnels by yourself."
    "But I have to go.  This might be connected to the Shadow Matoran."  --And maybe Ahkmou, I thought.
    "Alright, then.  Go to Onepu and see if you can convince him to let you up there.  Don't come crying to me when he sends you back to Po-Koro."
    "I don't plan on it!" I shouted as I ran off towards Onu-Koro, leaving the two Matoran beside the moat of magma.