


Post 8: The Trader



    I lifted myself out of the bed, sat down.  What just happened?  Nui-Rama and falling off the Guard base.  Not a good combination at all.  But here I am in this strange hut with a strange Ko-Matoran reading by the fire.  He turned around to face me, two pale blue eyes piercing out of the mask.
    "So.  You are awake.  Good to know," he said.  Typical Ko-Wahi terseness.
    I said nothing, looked around and slung on my pack.  He kept staring at me, and it was creeping me out.  "Why are you doing that?"
    "Doing what?"
    "Quit staring at me.  It's making me nervous."
    "Ah, but that is part of my job."
    "Your... job?  Includes staring at people?"  I got the idea he might be slightly off in the head.  Maybe he needed to thaw his brain by the fire a bit more.
    "Why yes.  You're very perceptive."
    I glared at him before laying back down and pointedly looking at the ceiling.
    "Anyway, I find an analysis of your psyche to be quite interesting," he said.
    "Huh?"
    "Your mind.  It intrigues me."
    "Alright, then.  And what do you say it looks like?"
    "Look?  Why, no, I would never confine myself to only one sense when describing someone, I would use at least three, all five if possible.  I find... taste to be a more accurate metaphor."
    "You're kindof starting to freak me out here..."
    "A base of curiosity, however separate from its constant companion, adventure.  Amplified by the spiciness of recent amnesia, heady notes of determination, and a light swirl of suspicion peaking into hatred at some points.  And if I look further, I find the object of your anger--a certain merchant we know, do we not?"
    How the... "Alright, who are you?" I nearly shouted.
    "Ah, now he asks the question."  He paused.  "I have no other name than the Trader.  I deal in souls."
    "Souls?"
    "Yes, that and other metaphysical body parts.  I could tell you of some trades past... you might understand."
    I threw my hands up.  "I guess I have all the time in the world for a crazed hermit."
    "Not quite insane, not quite a hermit," he said more to himself than me.  "But I digress.  I assume you know the legends?"
    "...of?"
    "Mata Nui and the fall.  THE Legend."
    "Of course I've heard it.  Who hasn't?"
    "Do you believe it?"
    I rubbed my head.  "I guess so?"

    "It was a trade.  Or two or three or a thousand, I've truly lost count.  Mata Nui placed the Matoran on this world he created for them.  But all they were, at that point, were little more than animals.  Nothing but instinct.  So he wanted to give them the gift of thought.  Of sentience.  He came to me.
    "I said I could work his miracle if he paid a certain price--he'd lose the ability to defend himself, he'd have to find a guardian instead.  He said he knew just the man to do it: his brother, Makuta.  So we shook hands and called it a deal, the Matoran became thinkers and the life of Mata Nui passed into Makuta's hands."
    "And we all know what happened from there."
    "I disagree.  While Mata Nui created the Matoran and the island, Makuta designed the Toa, Rahi, and most everything else.  When the brothers brought their creations to their father, one of the Great Beings, Mata Nui's were favored, but Makuta's were shunned.  And, brothers being brothers, Mata Nui wouldn't let it go.
    "So this time, Makuta sought my help.  He wanted to destroy his brother's paradise world, the world that his creatures were thought unfit to live in.  I sympathized with his anger, so I offered him a trade.  I could give him the power to knock out his brother, if he gave Mata Nui the Toa as a gift.  Once Mata Nui was out cold, he could step in and take control of the island--and move his Rahi in.
    "We shook hands and I left him to his own devices.  Mata Nui--oh that sad, sad fool, couldn't see what was before his very eyes.  That trophy from the Great Beings must have made him blind to the fact his brother hated him.  Why he chose him as his guardian, I'll never know.  Makuta infected the Toa with a virus that left them comatose, but of course gave himself the antidote.  When he gave his brother his creations, the pathogen leapt from the Toa to Mata Nui.  He fell in seconds.  Since that moment, Makuta has ruled here.  And now--that is where we all know the story from there."

    I paused.  "Well, that's a nice story, but what does that have to do with anything?"
    "Now you know how a trade works.  You should be able to spot the workings of one."
    "I mean what happens now.  I'm stuck... somewhere.  Where on earth am I?"
    "Nowhere.  Everywhere.  What does it matter?  My friends will be more than willing to take you back."
    "What?  Who are your... friends?"
    "I assume you encountered a pack of Rama on your travels, did you not?"
    "Well, yes.  One dropped me off a bridge, and I could hear them buzzing as I fell off the base... wait.  They... caught me?"
    "As I said, my friends.  You intrigued me, what had happened to you and what might be.  So I told them to save your life.  As for your friends, they're quite worried.  You should seek them out at the fortress."
    "What happened there?  Was that a trade, too?"
    "No.  The guards simply went out to hunt a Muaka, nothing out of the ordinary.  Most of them have returned by now."
    "So you're telling me to find them.  Where?  How?"
    "There is a Rama waiting outside.  Tell him to bring you back to life and he will return you to the fortress.  And if I were you, I'd keep looking for Ahkmou.  Great things are going to happen to this island--I'd hate for you to miss them."
