Post 3: A Matter of Faith

    The Prospector looked out behind me.  A Matoran wearing a black Kakama rushed up to us, followed by Damek, both clearly out of breath.
    "Tehutti!  What's going on?  Why aren't you unloading ore?" the Prospector demanded, but his voice carried a note of panic.
    The Kakama-clad matoran panted, pointing to Damek, who, with his guardsman's training, was a little more intelligible than his partner.
    "Matoran... weird guy... came in with a CCG, took the Level 7 crew hostage... Tehutti and I escaped.  He has a bomb... big bomb, a chemical weapon.  He's gonna take it to the bottom level and blow up as much of the mine as he can... who knows that the chems will do."
    The Prospector pulled out a communications pad.  "Donse!  Get me some of the Ussalry and rush them to the bottom floor!  Someone in here's taking a bomb down there!"
    He shut it down without waiting for a response and went back to his scope, trying to spot possible weak points in the mine.  He was about to issue orders to evacuate when a burst of foul-sounding words came from Tehutti, rabidly kicking the elevator.  "It's no use!"  he yelled.  "The lifts are stuck!"
    As soon as the words left his mouth, an elevator went down, almost in free-fall, with a yellow-eyed Matoran in tow.  He had a strange contraption attached to a large, green aerosol tank.  Damek pulled out a pistol and put a few rounds inside the cabin, but missed the Matoran.
    I leaned closer to Damek, whispering, "They're not going to make it in time, are they?"
    Damek said nothing but shook his head slowly.
    Rage flooded me.  This injustice...  He would take as many innocent lives as he could, and as Damek had said, who knew what his chemical would do?  I had to do something, if I could only know what.
    But first I had to get to the bottom.
    I looked in the piles of mining equipment, found a short tool with a hammer that elongated down the handle into an hatchet blade.  Twirling it experimentally, it fell comfortably into my hand.  I clipped it onto my pack.
    "Damek, can I use your gun?" I shouted.
    "Why?  Huki, what are you going to do?"
    "I'm going... to race him to the bottom."
    "What?  Are you crazy?  No, you're going to kill yourself!  HUKI!  GET BACK HERE!"
    I already had a running start.  A quick vault over the Prospector and his equipment was all I needed to reach my goal:  The black, gaping mouth of the Great Mine.
    As the wind rushed around my falling form, a thought hit me.
    There was no way for me to get back up.