Post 6, part 2:  Sabotage


    As I barged into Onepu's hut, he turned around, holding his radio.  "I thought you would be showing up."
    "You knew I was coming?"
    "Kaj told me about the busted pump.  The whole thing... the Matoran disappearing, the bomb and the Shadow Matoran, and now this... it seems too coordinated that the pump should suddenly decide to go haywire on us."
    "Someone sabotaged the pump?"
    "It seems a probable explanation, which I cannot disprove until I get people to unclog the pipe."
    "Oh yeah, about that.  I can get to Ko-Wahi and fix the pipe."
    Onepu cocked a skeptical eyebrow.  "Oh, really?  Why, yes, I'm Huki the Koli champion, I just fell down the Great Mine and nearly got my head chopped off by a maniac Shadow Matoran, and I feel good!  Let's do some more!  And by the way, could I have a couple tissues, I may be coming down with a cold.  Let's go to Ko-Wahi, that should solve everything."
    "Oh come on, you can't just leave me out of this now!"
    "I can and I will, provided you don't give me a good reason."
    "If it really is a conspiracy, then Ahkmou might be involved, and so you need a Po-Matoran to help with the investigation!"
    "So this is what this is all about?"  Onepu asked me in a strangely withering tone.  "You going after Ahkmou?  And to what end, precisely?"
    I couldn't think of anything.  I knew I had gone too far.  I was watching my one and only chance to find anything meaningful about Ahkmou fade into the dust.
    "Piatara just asked me to find out what Ahkmou wanted with a liquid-cored Koli ball.  I'm just following orders, and I'm the closest Po-Matoran at hand."
    "You and I know Piatara too well to take any of that ranting seriously, and I can get another Lonestar in half an hour if I wanted to.  Come on, why do you want to dig up dirt on Ahkmou?"
    I couldn't take the interrogation.  "I don't know!"  I roared at the ceiling.  "Ahkmou!  He said people called him 'evil genius'!  No one, I swear to you, calls that antisocial two-bit trader genius, evil or not!"  I started pacing, ranting to the empty air.  Onepu stood silently, listening.  "He hates me.  I don't know why.  Every other person who's seen a Koli game wants to get my autograph, but he... he always wants to put a hole in my head, acts like he's always got something up his sleeve, just waiting for the slightest excuse to take a sledgehammer to me!  AAUGH!  I need to know why!"
    Onepu slowly leaned back on a crab saddle.  "Alright, then."
    I wasn't sure what to make of it.  "What?"
    "Obviously me keeping you away is going to do more harm then good, and if I kept you from going on this mission, chances are you'd find a way to get to Ko-Wahi anyway.  You've got the job, but you sure as heck are not going alone."
    "Why?"
    "To start, you have no idea how that lava pump works.  We need an engineer up there who knows what he's doing.  Nuparu is an engineer looking to prove himself, this is a great, foolproof assignment for him.  You can find him in the labs.  Take Damek too, he knows the abandoned tunnels better than any man alive, and he's more than capable of handling Rahi.  Piatara and Onewa would never forgive me if you got mauled by rabid Fikou spiders up there."
    "Oh."  --I should have thought of that.--
    "I'll radio Damek the mission.  You should probably get him first, Nuparu is really shy with strangers.  Last time I had to practically drag him out of the lab to go to Le-Wahi.  And Huki?"
    "Yes sir?"
    "Whatever you do, do not get separated from them.  If you try to go and play the hero, you may not come back alive.  And don't even think of trying to take Ahkmou by yourself.  If he's half as dangerous as I think you think he is, he will not hesitate to kill you.  If this turns out that the pump just needed a tune up, Huki, I swear I will glue you to a crab headed straight to Po-Koro and post four guards to keep you inside your hut for a month.  Do I make myself clear?"
    "Perfectly."
    "Good.  I hope, for your sake, that I'm wrong."


