

    The guard base was the first hospitable place we had seen since leaving Onu-Koro.  A glorious structure of ice and stone, the fortress was surrounded by a deep moat-like trench.  It was a timely appearance, too, because Nuparu was about to smack Damek in the face.  Their discussion went somewhat like this.
    "Alright, it's about 500 meters away," spoke the engineer.
    "Don't tell me that thing is actually in the base.  We're going to have to make that trek through the snow?" Damek replied.
    "Can't be that hard," Nuparu said cheerfully.  Damek groaned.
    "Okay, so it's not the snow I mind as much as those stuck-up punks from the Ta-Koro Guard.  Gah.  Arrogant fiends."
    "Damek!" Nuparu looked shocked.
    "Perpetually half-frozen, ill-tempered Ta-Matoran with spears make foul company," Damek continued, unhindered in his rare poetic moment.  "They need a good dose of their high-and-noble duty shoved up their--"
    "Alright, we're here," I interrupted.  "You know what, you two can debate the matter and I'll go first."
    I was about to cross the ice bridge when Damek pointed out a pile of dark, discolored snow.  He took a handful and licked it, before throwing it into the moat in disgust.
    "Venom," he muttered to us.  Cautiously, he drew his pistol and clicked off the safety.  The base before us seemed silent, flags fluttering in the wind.
    I started my journey, gripping the slippy but solid rails with a bulldog grip.  Suddenly, the air around me was filled with buzzing, and I felt an angry Nui-Rama lift me into the sky.
    "Huki!  Stay still!" Damek yelled, sighting in and opening fire with expert precision.  The rounds from the airgun cut holes in the Rahi's wings, and it dropped me into the moat far below.
    --Come on, I thought, --this isn't supposed to end this way!  No!--
    The scene seemed eerily familiar.
    I angled myself towards the wall of the moat, then unclipped the mining tool from my pack.  The hatchet blade cut easily into the ice, slowing my fall.  But I slipped as I dug my feet in, and left a neat hole in the snow where I hit the ground.
    I dug myself out, borrowed tool still in hand, and shouted to Damek and Nuparu up above.  "I'm alright!  Can you two make it across?"
    Damek shouted something back, but whatever it was, it was lost in the icy wind that suddenly whipped through the moat.  I knew I had to get back up to them; I was worried about what I would miss in the fortress.  The walls were too slick to climb, with nary a foothold.
    I got the strange feeling someone else was in the miniature canyon with me, watching me, but when I glanced around, there was no one.
    Somehow, there had to be a way out.
    I slowly jogged around the moat, looking for anything climbable.  As I was about to give up, I saw a dark patch in the icy wall.  Upon further investigation, it turned out to be a grate of ice covering a cave.  I bashed it apart, then saw the liquid water running onto the snow.
    --A drain.--