


    Ahkmou was a strange sort.  He came to Onu-Koro frequently but never stayed for too long.  He was always off to some project in the mines.  But he noticed me.  One day I watched him as he was talking to a guard, and he saw me almost cowering in the lab.  I shut myself back in, but when I opened the door there was this... thing, on the step.  A gearbox of some sort.  There was this chunk of coal or something on the end of the gear.  After a while I set it on my blueprints and it drew out a message.  To meet someone at the lightstone mines, in the Cavern of Light.  When I got there, there was this Po-Matoran sitting by one of the springs.  Ahkmou.
    He congratulated me on having solved his puzzle.  He knew almost everything I knew about inventing.  He asked if he could show me what he knew at the shop, of course I was excited to do it.  No one ever really paid attention to my inventions before, and now someone wanted to actually teach me?  Of course yes!
    Ahkmou had a strange taste in inventions, he was never for the practical side of them.  He always said they should look beautiful when you're done with them.  So we spent days building this machine on the wall of the lab, he called it 'kinetic art'.  We hooked it up to one of the bridge gearboxes and turned it on, the metal arms kept moving in these patterns, but a little off each time.
    Once we finished our machine, he kept coming back.  Gave me hypothetical problems to solve, then would watch me build something to help it.  And occasionally we would do art machines too.
    The last time I saw him--well, before all this mess--he said he would be gone for about a week.  Wanted me to find a way to use almost-drained lightstones.  That's why I didn't want to leave the lab, I was so close to figuring it out...  and then this.
    There's just one thing.  When we got to Ko-Koro, it had only been two days since he left.  What I'm wondering is what the heck was he going to do with the rest of the time?


