o~Hello, stranger.  What brings you into this odd corner of Onu-Wahi?  Did you get lost?|Don't worry.  It isn't that far from Ta-Koro, and I know the way.
m~Or, if you came here on purpose, what do you need?
q0~Who are you?
q1~What is that machine behind you?
q2~Why are there ashes in this passageway?
q3~Goodbye, I think I know the way out.
r0~My name is Cmd. Kaj, Ussalry Class 2 Guard, Section 5.  I keep watch over the Lightstone mines and Ta-Koro.|We just found a new deposit a while ago--right down the staircase--and the diggers nicknamed it "The Cavern of Light".  It's prettier than the Megasphere down there, even with all the people digging.|Actually, we sent a lot of Lighstones over to the Megasphere, and they've been spending months replacing their dim stones with the fresh ones from the mine.
r1~This, my friend, is a lava pump.  This is actually Ta-Koroan property, but the engineers in Onu-Koro invented it.  All those pipes you see in the passageway are leading to lava farmers in Ta-Wahi, who send it up to the guards in the Northern March.|There are many pumps like this one.  Lava comes in, goes back up a pipe leading straight up the mountain, arrives in Ko-Wahi to give some heat to the Ta-Koro Guard fighting Rahi in that icy waste.  When the lava cools, it's sent back down and pumped back to Ta-Wahi to be reheated and reused.
r2~That is one flaw in the lava pump system.  When the pipes are over-pressurized and are in danger of bursting, the lava flow is diverted into holding tanks.  Whenever lava enters a tank, it sounds an alarm in the mine, because the tanks can only hold so much lava before they burst too.|Once we get out, we lock the mine, and time the pump to open a few holes in the pipes.  The pipes dump out lava into a moat, relieving pressure on them, but the moat also keeps us from the mine.|However, when we shut off the lava flow from that particular set of pipes, the lava eventually dries up and we start digging again.  The ashes are left in the moat.
r3~The road on the right leads to Ta-Koro, the road on the left to Onu-Koro.
bye~r3