Post 5:  Investigations


    "Huki!  Wait a second!"
    I turned around to see Onepu following me.  "I just got a dispatch from Captain Piatara.  He says he wanted to know anything about Ahkmou and a lava pump."
    "Oh, yeah.  He wants to know why Ahkmou harvested some lava from a pump headed to the North March.  I'll need to check that out."
    "Take the road down to Ta-Koro, there will be a pump on the left side.  It's the public lava pump; if I had to guess, I would say Ahkmou got his hot sauce from there.  Kaj is in charge of it."
    "Okay," I mumbled.
    "You don't sound like it," Onepu noted.  "You looked like you were about to pass out earlier."
    "I just don't feel good.  It seems like whenever I come to Onu-Koro I come down with something.  And that infected creep didn't help at all."
    "Ah, go to the lava pump.  The heat'll do you good."
    Onepu started to walk away.  "Wait!" I shouted after him.
    He turned around.  "What is it?"
    "What do you know about Ahkmou?"
    "Punk who made friends with that kid Nuparu.  Never seen him use the Po-Wahi highway to come to Onu-Koro, he always comes from the Ta-Koro road.  Smarter and crankier than he looks, which is saying something.  Has a weird way with Rahi.  Made a liquid cored rock.  We talking about the same guy?"
    "Yeah, though I've never heard of the Rahi part."
    "The guy comes into the crab stables and the Ussals are either trying to crawl all over him or get five miles away.  It seems like his necklace seems to glow when he does that."
    "Necklace?"
    "Yeah, small purple gem on a silver chain.  Ever seen it before?"
    "Nope... I'll have to look."  I paused, then a question came to mind.  "What was the Shadow Matoran's name?"
    He stuttered a moment, pulled out a notepad from his armor.  "Kylae.  Ring a bell?"
    "No.  But ask her if she knows anything about Ahkmou."  I was desperate to know more about this stranger who hated me so much when everyone else was trying to be my best friend.
    "Will do.  Anything else?"
    "I don't think so.  I'll go check out the pump now."
    "Take care, brother.  Anything goes off the rails, you can come to me."
    As I walked away, I made a note to see Nuparu on my way home.  A thought kept echoing through my head.
    Onepu had called me "brother".

