Post 2:  The Captain
    The figure seemed to know I was there without me saying anything.  Epena... Epena had said something.  Don't keep the Captain waiting.  Or was it Pekka?  I hoped it wasn't Pekka.  If it was Pekka, something very, very bad might happen.
    --I hope I'm not too late, I thought, took solace in the flat monotone in my brain.
    Finally, the figure spoke.  "Hello, Huki.  A pleasure seeing you well after Onu-Koro.  Alright, enough chitchat.  Let's get down to buisness.  I'm Captain Piatara of the Po-Koro Guard.  Can I trust you?"
    The blunt question caught me off guard.  "Yes... I guess... um, what?" I stuttered.  "Trust me with what?"
    "Messenger.  Word is you're a good runner.  How fast can you run to Onu-Koro?  And Ta-Koro, while you're at it?"
    "Fast, I think.  What's the message?"
    "This letter.  Increased Rahi sightings.  Matoran dissapearing.  And this," he pointed to a graph, "is disturbing."
    I stared at the tablet he shoved into my hands, before giving up in silent frustration.  I can't read well.  Hafu would be better for this job.  And the Captain has terrible handwriting.
    He continues without my input.  "Airborne Makuta Virus.  Street name:  The Madness."
    "How is that even possible?" I ask.
    "We don't know.  What we do know is how to cure it.  Quarantine the infected in a hut on the beach.  If it hasn't gotten that bad, it clears up in a day or two.  If it doesn't... then we have a problem."
    "What sort of a problem?"
    "Shadow Matoran.  Controlled by Makuta, every one of them more dangerous than angry Jaga.  At least, Ahkmou tells me."
    "Ahkmou... did you hear about him siphoning lava in Onu-Wahi?"
    "Ah, yes.  Strange, isn't it?  What would he do with a liquid-cored Koli ball...?  I need to interrogate him and find out.  I won't rest until he tells me why he needs a liquid-cored Koli ball!"
    With a crash, his fist fell down on the table.  An awkward silence filled the room.
    "Okay... What do you need me to do?" I finally say.
    "Take this message and run for your life down to Onu-Koro and give this letter to Onepu.  Find out what Ahkmou did with the lava.  Then get to Ta-Koro and  give the letter to Jala.  If he gives you something, go back to Onepu and talk to him again.  Then get back here and report to me.
    "Yes sir."
    Funny.  I hadn't intended on calling him that... but he just seems so much a leader, a true Captain, the title fell into place.
    "Then scram.  Makuta's not waiting and neither should we."  He handed me something, a ring, I think, saying,  "This is for safekeeping.  If you make it back, consider it earned."
    I turn around and run out the door, shoving the letter into my pack.