Post 7, part 2:  The Excommunicate


    I clambered out on the roof.  Thank heavens Ahkmou was still there.  He stood on the edge, whistling a melancholy duet with the wind.
    "There's nowhere to run, Ahkmou," I challenged.  "Now tell me what all this is about."
    "You."  The same flat, dark tone as before.
    "Like heck!  What does this have to do with me?"
    "You.  All these years.  Treating me like dirt for being the 'brainiac', that 'idiot salesman', and oh yes, the 'moron who couldn't find a Koli ball if he sat on one'.  In short, the genius.  Not some cocky clod of muscle like you."
    "I don't have a clue what you're talking about!"
    "I would have said don't act like you don't know, but of course, I already knew it was useless."
    "Give me a straight answer!"
    He whirled round to face me, his purple gem glowing with a fury his eyes just couldn't contain.  "Do you know why they call me 'evil genius'?  Do you even know who they are?  The 'good', so you call yourselves, didn't want me.  Tried to kill me.  But now.  I am evil.  I am evil's willing partner.  I know things that even Onewa shudders to think about.  I have knowledge beyond the greatest scholar of Ko-Wahi.  And I had a life before you came along.  A friend.  My one and only true friend.  You... you followed me, you deliberately brought Nuparu here!  You make me show him my dark side for five seconds, and you know full well he'll never see me the same way again!  And you have the audacity to tell me, you didn't have a clue what you were doing?"
    I said nothing but took up a fighting stance.  Ahkmou did nothing as his voice dropped to a cold level, a sing-song monotone malevolently devoid of emotion.
    "I swear to you, Huki, I will end this.  I will force you to your knees and kick you like the foul Rahi you are.  I will have my glory, my redemption, my mere existence from you.  What you so callously, casually destroyed I will rebuild.  Oh yes."  He stroked his gem as a wicked gleam came into his eye.  "We've been waiting for this for a long time, haven't we?"
    He flew at me, tearing at my mask, but I rolled over and pinned him down.  As his body convulsed with rage, I nearly shouted at him, "I don't think so, you filthy liar."
    Ahkmou suddenly stopped struggling for a moment.  "Oh, but I do."
    In the moments before I passed out, the last thing I saw was black steel being pushed to my mask from Ahkmou's free hands.  Something slammed me in the face, seeped into my mask.  As it sloshed around, I felt it burning, blinding me.  I scrabbled at the snow.
    I realized where I had seen Ahkmou's reaction before.  Kylae the Shadow Matoran.  Going limp like a doll in Onepu's enraged hands.
    The last things I remember were Ahkmou's boots kicking off the ledge, the buzz of angry Nui-Rama, then...
    Nothing.


THIS IS THE END OF THE ADVENTURE POSTS DEMO.
FOLLOW ITS DEVELOPMENT AT:
http://biomediaproject.com/bmp/board/viewtopic.php?f=19&t=308